server/architecture/topologies/primary-replica/step-5-install-mariadb-maxscale.md, before:

# Step 5: Install MariaDB MaxScale

## Overview

This page details step 5 of the 7-step procedure "[Deploy Primary/Replica Topology](./)".

This step install MariaDB MaxScale 25.01.

The MaxScale node must meet [requirements](./#requirements).

Interactive commands are detailed. Alternatively, the described operations can be performed using automation.

## Retrieve Customer Download Token

MariaDB Corporation provides package repositories for YUM (RHEL, CentOS), APT (Debian, Ubuntu), and ZYpp (SLES). A download token is required to access the MariaDB Enterprise Repository.

Customer Download Tokens are customer-specific and are available through the MariaDB Customer Portal.

To retrieve the token for your account:

1. Navigate to [https://customers.mariadb.com/downloads/token/](https://customers.mariadb.com/downloads/token/)
2. Log in.
3. Copy the Customer Download Token.

Substitute your token for `CUSTOMER_DOWNLOAD_TOKEN` when configuring the package repositories.

## Set Up Repository

1. **On the MaxScale node**, install the prerequisites for downloading the software from the Web.

Install on CentOS / RHEL (YUM):

```bash
$ sudo yum install curl
```

Install on Debian / Ubuntu (APT):

```bash
$ sudo apt install curl apt-transport-https
```

Install on SLES (ZYpp):

```bash
$ sudo zypper install curl
```

2. **On the MaxScale node**, configure package repositories and specify MariaDB MaxScale 25.01:

```bash
$ curl -LsSO https://dlm.mariadb.com/enterprise-release-helpers/mariadb_es_repo_setup

$ echo "4d483b4df193831a0101d3dfa7fb3e17411dda7fc06c31be4f9e089c325403c0  mariadb_es_repo_setup" \
       | sha256sum -c -

$ chmod +x mariadb_es_repo_setup

$ sudo ./mariadb_es_repo_setup --token="CUSTOMER_DOWNLOAD_TOKEN" --apply \
      --skip-server \
      --skip-tools \
      --mariadb-maxscale-version="25.01"
```

## Install MaxScale

**On the MaxScale node**, install MariaDB MaxScale.

Install on CentOS / RHEL (YUM):

```bash
$ sudo yum install maxscale
```

Install on Debian / Ubuntu (APT):

```bash
$ sudo apt install maxscale
```

Install on SLES (ZYpp):

```bash
$ sudo zypper install maxscale
```

## Next Step

Navigation in the procedure "Deploy Primary/Replica Topology":

This page was step 5 of 7.

Next: Step 6: Start and Configure MariaDB MaxScale

<sub>_This page is: Copyright © 2025 MariaDB. All rights reserved._</sub>

{% @marketo/form formId="4316" %}

Commit message:

GITBOOK-1128: update mariadb_es_repo_setup checksum examples

server/architecture/topologies/primary-replica/step-5-install-mariadb-maxscale.md, after:

# Step 5: Install MariaDB MaxScale

## Overview

This page details step 5 of the 7-step procedure "[Deploy Primary/Replica Topology](./)".

This step install MariaDB MaxScale 25.01.

The MaxScale node must meet [requirements](./#requirements).

Interactive commands are detailed. Alternatively, the described operations can be performed using automation.

## Retrieve Customer Download Token

MariaDB Corporation provides package repositories for YUM (RHEL, CentOS), APT (Debian, Ubuntu), and ZYpp (SLES). A download token is required to access the MariaDB Enterprise Repository.

Customer Download Tokens are customer-specific and are available through the MariaDB Customer Portal.

To retrieve the token for your account:

1. Navigate to [https://customers.mariadb.com/downloads/token/](https://customers.mariadb.com/downloads/token/)
2. Log in.
3. Copy the Customer Download Token.

Substitute your token for `CUSTOMER_DOWNLOAD_TOKEN` when configuring the package repositories.

## Set Up Repository

1. **On the MaxScale node**, install the prerequisites for downloading the software from the Web.

Install on CentOS / RHEL (YUM):

```bash
$ sudo yum install curl
```

Install on Debian / Ubuntu (APT):

```bash
$ sudo apt install curl apt-transport-https
```

Install on SLES (ZYpp):

```bash
$ sudo zypper install curl
```

2. **On the MaxScale node**, configure package repositories and specify MariaDB MaxScale 25.01:

```bash
$ curl -LsSO https://dlm.mariadb.com/enterprise-release-helpers/mariadb_es_repo_setup

$ echo "${checksum}  mariadb_es_repo_setup" \
       | sha256sum -c -

$ chmod +x mariadb_es_repo_setup

$ sudo ./mariadb_es_repo_setup --token="CUSTOMER_DOWNLOAD_TOKEN" --apply \
      --skip-server \
      --skip-tools \
      --mariadb-maxscale-version="25.01"
```

_Checksums of the various releases of the `mariadb_es_repo_setup` script can be found in the_ [_Versions_](../../../server-management/install-and-upgrade-mariadb/installing-mariadb/binary-packages/mariadb-package-repository-setup-and-usage.md#versions) _section at the bottom of the_ [_MariaDB Package Repository Setup and Usage_](../../../server-management/install-and-upgrade-mariadb/installing-mariadb/binary-packages/mariadb-package-repository-setup-and-usage.md) _page. Substitute `${checksum}` in the example above with the latest checksum._

## Install MaxScale

**On the MaxScale node**, install MariaDB MaxScale.

Install on CentOS / RHEL (YUM):

```bash
$ sudo yum install maxscale
```

Install on Debian / Ubuntu (APT):

```bash
$ sudo apt install maxscale
```

Install on SLES (ZYpp):

```bash
$ sudo zypper install maxscale
```

## Next Step

Navigation in the procedure "Deploy Primary/Replica Topology":

This page was step 5 of 7.

Next: Step 6: Start and Configure MariaDB MaxScale

{% include "../../../.gitbook/includes/license-copyright-mariadb.md" %}

{% @marketo/form formId="4316" %}
