---
icon: rabbit-running
---

# Quickstart Guides

<table data-card-size="large" data-view="cards"><thead><tr><th></th><th></th><th data-hidden data-card-target data-type="content-ref"></th><th data-hidden data-card-cover data-type="files"></th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><strong>MariaDB Connector/C Quickstart Guide</strong></td><td><em>This guide will help you quickly get started with <strong>MariaDB Connector/C</strong>, the client library used to connect C/C++ applications to MariaDB and MySQL databases. It's LGPL licensed and is being integrated directly into MariaDB Server distributions.</em></td><td><a href="mariadb-connector-c-guide.md">mariadb-connector-c-guide.md</a></td><td><a href="../.gitbook/assets/Group 15568.png">Group 15568.png</a></td></tr><tr><td><strong>MariaDB Connector/C++ Quickstart Guide</strong></td><td><em><strong>MariaDB Connector/C++</strong> allows your C++ applications to connect to MariaDB databases, including support for TLS encryption. It provides an object-oriented design and leverages smart pointers for efficient memory management.</em></td><td><a href="mariadb-connector-c++-guide.md">mariadb-connector-c++-guide.md</a></td><td><a href="../.gitbook/assets/Group 15570.png">Group 15570.png</a></td></tr><tr><td><strong>MariaDB Connector/J Quickstart Guide</strong></td><td><em>MariaDB Connector/J is the official Java Database Connectivity (JDBC) driver for connecting Java applications to MariaDB and MySQL databases. It allows Java programs to interact with databases using the standard JDBC API.</em></td><td><a href="mariadb-connector-j-guide.md">mariadb-connector-j-guide.md</a></td><td><a href="../.gitbook/assets/Group 15569 (2).png">Group 15569 (2).png</a></td></tr><tr><td><strong>MariaDB Connector/R2DBC Quickstart Guide</strong></td><td><em>MariaDB Connector/R2DBC allows Java developers to connect to MariaDB and MySQL databases using the Reactive Relational Database Connectivity (R2DBC) API. This enables non-blocking, asynchronous database operations, which are beneficial for building scalable and responsive applications.</em></td><td><a href="mariadb-connector-r2dbc-guide.md">mariadb-connector-r2dbc-guide.md</a></td><td><a href="../.gitbook/assets/wave-1-1200x628.png">wave-1-1200x628.png</a></td></tr><tr><td><strong>Erlang Quickstart Guide</strong></td><td><em>MySQL/OTP is the native Erlang/OTP client for connecting Erlang applications to MariaDB and MySQL databases, offering a direct implementation of the MySQL protocol.</em></td><td><a href="mariadb-connector-erlang-guide.md">mariadb-connector-erlang-guide.md</a></td><td><a href="../.gitbook/assets/blue-bright-1200x628.png">blue-bright-1200x628.png</a></td></tr></tbody></table>


{% @marketo/form formid="4316" %}
