server/server-usage/backing-up-and-restoring-databases/mariabackup/using-encryption-and-compression-tools-with-mariabackup.md, before:

# Using Encryption and Compression Tools With mariadb-backup

[mariadb-backup](./) supports streaming to stdout with the `--stream=xbstream` option. This option allows easy integration with popular encryption and compression tools. Below are several examples.

## Encrypting and Decrypting Backup With openssl

The following example creates an AES-encrypted backup, protected with the password "mypass" and stores it in a file "backup.xb.enc":

```bash
mariabackup --user=root --backup --stream=xbstream  | openssl  enc -aes-256-cbc -k mypass > backup.xb.enc
```

To decrypt and unpack this backup into the current directory, the following command can be used:

```bash
openssl  enc -d -aes-256-cbc -k mypass -in backup.xb.enc | mbstream -x
```

## Compressing and Decompressing Backup With gzip

This example compresses the backup without encrypting:

```bash
mariabackup --user=root --backup --stream=xbstream | gzip > backupstream.gz
```

We can decompress and unpack the backup as follows:

```bash
gunzip -c backupstream.gz | mbstream -x
```

## Compressing and Encrypting Backup, Using gzip and openssl

This example adds a compression step before the encryption, otherwise looks almost identical to the previous example:

```bash
mariabackup --user=root --backup --stream=xbstream | gzip | openssl  enc -aes-256-cbc -k mypass > backup.xb.gz.enc
```

We can decrypt, decompress and unpack the backup as follow (note `gzip -d` in the pipeline):

```bash
openssl  enc -d -aes-256-cbc -k mypass -in backup.xb.gz.enc |gzip -d| mbstream -x
```

## Compressing and Encrypting with 7Zip

7zip archiver is a popular utility (especially on Windows) that supports reading from standard output, with the -`-si` option, and writing to stdout with the `-so` option, and can thus be used together with mariadb-backup.

Compressing backup with the 7z command line utility works as follows:

```bash
mariabackup --user=root --backup --stream=xbstream | 7z a -si backup.xb.7z
```

Uncompress and unpack the archive with

```bash
7z e backup.xb.7z -so |mbstream -x
```

7z also has builtin AES-256 encryption. To encrypt the backup from the previous example using password SECRET, add `-pSECRET` to the 7z command line.

## Compressing with zstd

Compress

```bash
mariabackup --user=root --backup --stream=xbstream  | zstd - -o backup.xb.zst -f -1
```

Decompress , unpack

```bash
zstd -d backup.xbstream.zst -c | mbstream -x
```

## Encrypting With GPG

Encryption

```bash
mariabackup --user=root --backup --stream=xbstream | gpg -c --passphrase SECRET --batch --yes -o backup.xb.gpg
```

Decrypt, unpack

```bash
gpg --decrypt --passphrase SECRET --batch --yes  backup.xb.gpg | mbstream -x
```

## Interactive Input for Passphrases

Most of the described tools also provide a way to enter a passphrase interactively (although 7zip does not seem to work well when reading input from stdin). Please consult documentation of the tools for more info.

## Writing extra status files

By default files like [xtrabackup_checkpoints](files-created-by-mariabackup.md#xtrabackup_checkpoints) are also written to the output stream only, and so would not be available for taking further incremental backups without prior extraction from the compressed or encrypted stream output file.

To avoid this these files can additionally be written to a directory that can then be used as input for further incremental backups using the [--extra-lsndir=...](mariabackup-options.md#-extra-lsndir) option.

See also e.g: [Combining incremental backups with streaming output](incremental-backup-and-restore-with-mariabackup.md#combining-with-stream-output)

<sub>_This page is licensed: CC BY-SA / Gnu FDL_</sub>

{% @marketo/form formId="4316" %}

Commit message:

Updated from Mariabackup to mariadb-backup for Server section

server/server-usage/backing-up-and-restoring-databases/mariabackup/using-encryption-and-compression-tools-with-mariabackup.md, after:

# Using Encryption and Compression Tools With mariadb-backup

[mariadb-backup](./) supports streaming to stdout with the `--stream=xbstream` option. This option allows easy integration with popular encryption and compression tools. Below are several examples.

## Encrypting and Decrypting Backup With openssl

The following example creates an AES-encrypted backup, protected with the password "mypass" and stores it in a file "backup.xb.enc":

```bash
mariadb-backup --user=root --backup --stream=xbstream  | openssl  enc -aes-256-cbc -k mypass > backup.xb.enc
```

To decrypt and unpack this backup into the current directory, the following command can be used:

```bash
openssl  enc -d -aes-256-cbc -k mypass -in backup.xb.enc | mbstream -x
```

## Compressing and Decompressing Backup With gzip

This example compresses the backup without encrypting:

```bash
mariadb-backup --user=root --backup --stream=xbstream | gzip > backupstream.gz
```

We can decompress and unpack the backup as follows:

```bash
gunzip -c backupstream.gz | mbstream -x
```

## Compressing and Encrypting Backup, Using gzip and openssl

This example adds a compression step before the encryption, otherwise looks almost identical to the previous example:

```bash
mariadb-backup --user=root --backup --stream=xbstream | gzip | openssl  enc -aes-256-cbc -k mypass > backup.xb.gz.enc
```

We can decrypt, decompress and unpack the backup as follow (note `gzip -d` in the pipeline):

```bash
openssl  enc -d -aes-256-cbc -k mypass -in backup.xb.gz.enc |gzip -d| mbstream -x
```

## Compressing and Encrypting with 7Zip

7zip archiver is a popular utility (especially on Windows) that supports reading from standard output, with the -`-si` option, and writing to stdout with the `-so` option, and can thus be used together with mariadb-backup.

Compressing backup with the 7z command line utility works as follows:

```bash
mariadb-backup --user=root --backup --stream=xbstream | 7z a -si backup.xb.7z
```

Uncompress and unpack the archive with

```bash
7z e backup.xb.7z -so |mbstream -x
```

7z also has builtin AES-256 encryption. To encrypt the backup from the previous example using password SECRET, add `-pSECRET` to the 7z command line.

## Compressing with zstd

Compress

```bash
mariadb-backup --user=root --backup --stream=xbstream  | zstd - -o backup.xb.zst -f -1
```

Decompress , unpack

```bash
zstd -d backup.xbstream.zst -c | mbstream -x
```

## Encrypting With GPG

Encryption

```bash
mariadb-backup --user=root --backup --stream=xbstream | gpg -c --passphrase SECRET --batch --yes -o backup.xb.gpg
```

Decrypt, unpack

```bash
gpg --decrypt --passphrase SECRET --batch --yes  backup.xb.gpg | mbstream -x
```

## Interactive Input for Passphrases

Most of the described tools also provide a way to enter a passphrase interactively (although 7zip does not seem to work well when reading input from stdin). Please consult documentation of the tools for more info.

## Writing extra status files

By default files like [xtrabackup_checkpoints](files-created-by-mariadb-backup.md#xtrabackup_checkpoints) are also written to the output stream only, and so would not be available for taking further incremental backups without prior extraction from the compressed or encrypted stream output file.

To avoid this these files can additionally be written to a directory that can then be used as input for further incremental backups using the [--extra-lsndir=...](mariadb-backup-options.md#-extra-lsndir) option.

See also e.g: [Combining incremental backups with streaming output](incremental-backup-and-restore-with-mariadb-backup.md#combining-with-stream-output)

<sub>_This page is licensed: CC BY-SA / Gnu FDL_</sub>

{% @marketo/form formId="4316" %}
