server/reference/sql-statements/administrative-sql-statements/describe.md, before:

# DESCRIBE

## Syntax

```
{DESCRIBE | DESC} tbl_name [col_name | wild]
```

## Description

`DESCRIBE` provides information about the columns in a table.\
It is a shortcut for [SHOW COLUMNS FROM](show/show-columns.md).\
These statements also display information for [views](../../../server-usage/views/).

`col_name` can be a column name, or a string containing the\
SQL "`%`" and "`_`" wildcard characters to\
obtain output only for the columns with names matching the string. There is no\
need to enclose the string within quotes unless it contains spaces or other\
special characters.

```
DESCRIBE city;
+------------+----------+------+-----+---------+----------------+
| Field      | Type     | Null | Key | Default | Extra          |
+------------+----------+------+-----+---------+----------------+
| Id         | int(11)  | NO   | PRI | NULL    | auto_increment |
| Name       | char(35) | YES  |     | NULL    |                |
| Country    | char(3)  | NO   | UNI |         |                |
| District   | char(20) | YES  | MUL |         |                |
| Population | int(11)  | YES  |     | NULL    |                |
+------------+----------+------+-----+---------+----------------+
```

The description for [SHOW COLUMNS](show/show-columns.md) provides\
more information about the output columns.

## See Also

* [SHOW COLUMNS](show/show-columns.md)
* [INFORMATION\_SCHEMA.COLUMNS Table](system-tables/information-schema/information-schema-tables/information-schema-columns-table.md)
* [mysqlshow](../../../clients-and-utilities/legacy-clients-and-utilities/mysqlshow.md)

<sub>_This page is licensed: GPLv2, originally from [fill\_help\_tables.sql](https://github.com/MariaDB/server/blob/main/scripts/fill_help_tables.sql)_</sub>

{% @marketo/form formId="4316" %}

Commit message:

Reworked Administrative SQL Statements. (More to come.) Fixed typos. Fixed broken links. Added syntax highlighting.

server/reference/sql-statements/administrative-sql-statements/describe.md, after:

# DESCRIBE

## Syntax

```sql
{DESCRIBE | DESC} tbl_name [col_name | wild]
```

## Description

`DESCRIBE` provides information about the columns in a table.It is a shortcut for [SHOW COLUMNS FROM](show/show-columns.md).These statements also display information for [views](../../../server-usage/views/).

`col_name` can be a column name, or a string containing theSQL "`%`" and "`_`" wildcard characters toobtain output only for the columns with names matching the string. There is noneed to enclose the string within quotes unless it contains spaces or otherspecial characters.

```sql
DESCRIBE city;
+------------+----------+------+-----+---------+----------------+
| Field      | Type     | Null | Key | Default | Extra          |
+------------+----------+------+-----+---------+----------------+
| Id         | int(11)  | NO   | PRI | NULL    | auto_increment |
| Name       | char(35) | YES  |     | NULL    |                |
| Country    | char(3)  | NO   | UNI |         |                |
| District   | char(20) | YES  | MUL |         |                |
| Population | int(11)  | YES  |     | NULL    |                |
+------------+----------+------+-----+---------+----------------+
```

The description for [SHOW COLUMNS](show/show-columns.md) providesmore information about the output columns.

## See Also

* [SHOW COLUMNS](show/show-columns.md)
* [INFORMATION\_SCHEMA.COLUMNS Table](system-tables/information-schema/information-schema-tables/information-schema-columns-table.md)
* [mysqlshow](../../../clients-and-utilities/legacy-clients-and-utilities/mysqlshow.md)

<sub>_This page is licensed: GPLv2, originally from [fill\_help\_tables.sql](https://github.com/MariaDB/server/blob/main/scripts/fill_help_tables.sql)_</sub>

{% @marketo/form formId="4316" %}
