server/reference/sql-structure/vectors/vector-functions/vec_distance_euclidean.md, before:

# VEC\_DISTANCE\_EUCLIDEAN

{% include "https://app.gitbook.com/s/GxVnu02ec8KJuFSxmB93/~/reusable/pBQsCgBA6SJpi0m3pZuk/" %}

**MariaDB starting with** [**11.7**](https://app.gitbook.com/s/aEnK0ZXmUbJzqQrTjFyb/mariadb-community-server-release-notes/old-releases/mariadb-11-7-rolling-releases/what-is-mariadb-117)

Vectors were introduced in [MariaDB 11.7](https://app.gitbook.com/s/aEnK0ZXmUbJzqQrTjFyb/mariadb-community-server-release-notes/old-releases/mariadb-11-7-rolling-releases/what-is-mariadb-117).

## Syntax

```
VEC_DISTANCE_EUCLIDEAN(v, s)
```

## Description

`VEC_Distance_Euclidean` is an SQL function that calculates a Euclidean (L2) distance between two points.

Vectors must be of the same length, a distance between two vectors of different lengths is not defined and `VEC_Distance_Euclidean` will return `NULL` in such a case.

If the vector index was not built for the euclidean function (see [CREATE TABLE with Vectors](../create-table-with-vectors.md)), the index will not be used, and a full table scan performed instead. The [VEC\_DISTANCE](vector-functions-vec_distance.md) function is a generic function that behaves either as VEC\_DISTANCE\_EUCLIDEAN or [VEC\_DISTANCE\_COSINE](vec_distance_cosine.md), depending on the underlying index type.

## Example

```
INSERT INTO v VALUES 
     (1, x'e360d63ebe554f3fcdbc523f4522193f5236083d'),
     (2, x'f511303f72224a3fdd05fe3eb22a133ffae86a3f'),
     (3,x'f09baa3ea172763f123def3e0c7fe53e288bf33e'),
     (4,x'b97a523f2a193e3eb4f62e3f2d23583e9dd60d3f'),
     (5,x'f7c5df3e984b2b3e65e59d3d7376db3eac63773e'),
     (6,x'de01453ffa486d3f10aa4d3fdd66813c71cb163f'),
     (7,x'76edfc3e4b57243f10f8423fb158713f020bda3e'),
     (8,x'56926c3fdf098d3e2c8c5e3d1ad4953daa9d0b3e'),
     (9,x'7b713f3e5258323f80d1113d673b2b3f66e3583f'),
     (10,x'6ca1d43e9df91b3fe580da3e1c247d3f147cf33e');

SELECT id FROM v 
  ORDER BY VEC_Distance_Euclidean(v, x'6ca1d43e9df91b3fe580da3e1c247d3f147cf33e');
+----+
| id |
+----+
| 10 |
|  7 |
|  3 |
|  9 |
|  2 |
|  1 |
|  5 |
|  4 |
|  6 |
|  8 |
+----+
```

## See Also

* [VEC\_DISTANCE](vector-functions-vec_distance.md)
* [VEC\_DISTANCE\_COSINE](vec_distance_cosine.md)
* [Vector Overview](../vector-overview.md)
* [CREATE TABLE with Vectors](../create-table-with-vectors.md)

<sub>_This page is licensed: CC BY-SA / Gnu FDL_</sub>

{% @marketo/form formId="4316" %}

Commit message:

GITBOOK-916: Broken links. Syntax highlighting. Adding Hint that this is 11.7+.

server/reference/sql-structure/vectors/vector-functions/vec_distance_euclidean.md, after:

# VEC\_DISTANCE\_EUCLIDEAN

{% include "https://app.gitbook.com/s/GxVnu02ec8KJuFSxmB93/~/reusable/pBQsCgBA6SJpi0m3pZuk/" %}

{% include "../../../../.gitbook/includes/vectors-are-available-from-....md" %}

## Syntax

```sql
VEC_DISTANCE_EUCLIDEAN(v, s)
```

## Description

`VEC_Distance_Euclidean` is an SQL function that calculates a Euclidean (L2) distance between two points.

Vectors must be of the same length, a distance between two vectors of different lengths is not defined and `VEC_Distance_Euclidean` returns  `NULL` in such cases.

If the vector index was not built for the euclidean function (see [CREATE TABLE with Vectors](../create-table-with-vectors.md)), the index is not used, and a full table scan performed instead. The [VEC\_DISTANCE](vector-functions-vec_distance.md) function is a generic function that behaves either as `VEC_DISTANCE_EUCLIDEAN` or [VEC\_DISTANCE\_COSINE](vec_distance_cosine.md), depending on the underlying index type.

## Example

```sql
INSERT INTO v VALUES 
     (1, x'e360d63ebe554f3fcdbc523f4522193f5236083d'),
     (2, x'f511303f72224a3fdd05fe3eb22a133ffae86a3f'),
     (3,x'f09baa3ea172763f123def3e0c7fe53e288bf33e'),
     (4,x'b97a523f2a193e3eb4f62e3f2d23583e9dd60d3f'),
     (5,x'f7c5df3e984b2b3e65e59d3d7376db3eac63773e'),
     (6,x'de01453ffa486d3f10aa4d3fdd66813c71cb163f'),
     (7,x'76edfc3e4b57243f10f8423fb158713f020bda3e'),
     (8,x'56926c3fdf098d3e2c8c5e3d1ad4953daa9d0b3e'),
     (9,x'7b713f3e5258323f80d1113d673b2b3f66e3583f'),
     (10,x'6ca1d43e9df91b3fe580da3e1c247d3f147cf33e');

SELECT id FROM v 
  ORDER BY VEC_Distance_Euclidean(v, x'6ca1d43e9df91b3fe580da3e1c247d3f147cf33e');
+----+
| id |
+----+
| 10 |
|  7 |
|  3 |
|  9 |
|  2 |
|  1 |
|  5 |
|  4 |
|  6 |
|  8 |
+----+
```

## See Also

* [VEC\_DISTANCE](vector-functions-vec_distance.md)
* [VEC\_DISTANCE\_COSINE](vec_distance_cosine.md)
* [Vector Overview](../vector-overview.md)
* [CREATE TABLE with Vectors](../create-table-with-vectors.md)

<sub>_This page is licensed: CC BY-SA / Gnu FDL_</sub>

{% @marketo/form formId="4316" %}
