---
description: MariaDB MaxScale 23.02 series changes and improvements
---

# MaxScale 23.02 Changelog

* A transition from the traditional master/slave terminology to the primary/replica terminology has been started. In the documentation and in the logging the transition has been made, but in configuration settings and command output the traditional terminology is still used. Conceptually, master/slave and primary/replica are completely interchangeable.
* MariaDB Monitor now preserves the MASTER\_USE\_GTID-setting of a replica when redirecting one during switchover and failover. When starting a new replication connection on a previous replica, Slave\_Pos is used. When starting a new replication connection on a previous primary, Current\_Pos is used.
* Added `replication_custom_options`-setting to both MariaDB Monitor and server. This setting enables e.g. setting SSL certificates for replication connections. See [MariaDB Monitor documentation](https://app.gitbook.com/s/0pSbu5DcMSW4KwAkUcmX/maxscale-archive/archive/mariadb-maxscale-23-02/mariadb-maxscale-23-02-monitors/mariadb-maxscale-2302-mariadb-monitor#replication_custom_options) for more information.
* Added `check_repl_on_stop_slave_timeout` setting to MariaDB Monitor. This setting is meant for fault tolerance and diagnostics of `STOP SLAVE` during failover or switchover. See [MariaDB Monitor documentation](https://app.gitbook.com/s/0pSbu5DcMSW4KwAkUcmX/reference/maxscale-monitors/mariadb-monitor#check_repl_on_stop_slave_timeout) for more information.
* Create-Backup and Restore-From-Backup commands added to MariaDBMonitor.
* The `csmon` and `auroramon` monitors that were deprecated in 22.08.2 have been removed.
* The obsolete `maxctrl drain` command has been removed. Use `maxctrl set server <name> drain` to use the built-in draining mechanism.
* The `maxctrl cluster` commands have been removed. Use the built-in [configuration synchronization](https://app.gitbook.com/s/0pSbu5DcMSW4KwAkUcmX/maxscale-archive/archive/mariadb-maxscale-23-02/mariadb-maxscale-23-02-getting-started/mariadb-maxscale-2302-mariadb-maxscale-configuration-guide#configuration-synchronization) to synchronize the configurations of multiple MaxScale instances.
* The REST-API is now supports ODBC-type connections in the `/sql` endpoints. For more information, refer to the SQL resource [documentation](https://app.gitbook.com/s/0pSbu5DcMSW4KwAkUcmX/maxscale-archive/archive/mariadb-maxscale-23-02/mariadb-maxscale-23-02-rest-api/mariadb-maxscale-2302-sql-resource#open-sql-connection-to-server).
* The REST-API query endpoint now supports asynchronous query execution using the `async=true` option.
* The new `/sql/:id/etl` endpoints allow ETL operations to be done from ODBC data sources into MariaDB servers. For more information on the new API functions, refer to the SQL resource [documentation](https://app.gitbook.com/s/0pSbu5DcMSW4KwAkUcmX/maxscale-archive/archive/mariadb-maxscale-23-02/mariadb-maxscale-23-02-rest-api/mariadb-maxscale-2302-sql-resource#prepare-etl-operation).
* The number of routing threads MaxScale uses can now be changed at runtime.
* The Audit-Log allows all REST-API calls to be logged.
* MaxScale now supports Xpand parallel replication streams that go through MaxScale.
* Authentication can now be enabled when Redis is used as the cache storage.
* SSL/TLS can now be used in the communication between MaxScale and Redis when Redis is used as the storage for the cache.
* Some Cache configuration parameters, most notable the rules, can now be changed at runtime.
* Support for inbound proxy protocol added.
* Ed25519Auth-plugin added. The plugin enables authentication with the MariaDB Server ed25519 authentication plugin.
* MaxGUI Query Editor has been renamed to "Workspace," and its internal storage key has been modified. As a result, the query history, snippets, and user preferences settings are restored to their default values.
* The redundant options for `create server` and `create listener` that were deprecated in 22.08 have been removed in MaxScale 23.02. The use of explicit options has been superseded by the use of `key=value` parameters in all`create` commands.

For more details, please refer to:

* [MariaDB MaxScale 23.02.16 Release Notes](23.02.16.md)
* [MariaDB MaxScale 23.02.15 Release Notes](23.02.15.md)
* [MariaDB MaxScale 23.02.14 Release Notes](23.02.14.md)
* [MariaDB MaxScale 23.02.13 Release Notes](23.02.13.md)
* [MariaDB MaxScale 23.02.12 Release Notes](23.02.12.md)
* [MariaDB MaxScale 23.02.11 Release Notes](23.02.11.md)
* [MariaDB MaxScale 23.02.10 Release Notes](23.02.10.md)
* [MariaDB MaxScale 23.02.9 Release Notes](23.02.9.md)
* [MariaDB MaxScale 23.02.8 Release Notes](23.02.8.md)
* [MariaDB MaxScale 23.02.7 Release Notes](23.02.7.md)
* [MariaDB MaxScale 23.02.6 Release Notes](23.02.6.md)
* [MariaDB MaxScale 23.02.5 Release Notes](23.02.5.md)
* [MariaDB MaxScale 23.02.4 Release Notes](23.02.4.md)
* [MariaDB MaxScale 23.02.3 Release Notes](23.02.3.md)
* [MariaDB MaxScale 23.02.2 Release Notes](23.02.2.md)
* [MariaDB MaxScale 23.02.1 Release Notes](23.02.1.md)
* [MariaDB MaxScale 23.02.0 Release Notes](23.02.0.md)

The changelog for the previous MaxScale version can be found [here](../22.08/22.08-changelog.md).

{% include "https://app.gitbook.com/s/SsmexDFPv2xG2OTyO5yV/~/reusable/pNHZQXPP5OEz2TgvhFva/" %}

{% @marketo/form formid="4316" formId="4316" %}
