server/reference/sql-statements/administrative-sql-statements/system-tables/sys-schema/sys-schema-stored-functions/format_statement.md, before:


# format_statement

## Syntax


```
sys.format_statement(statement)
```

## Description


Returns a reduced length string. The length is specified by the [statement_truncate_len configuration option](../sys-schema-sys_config-table.md) (default 64), and the removed part of the string (if any) is replaced with an ellipsis (three dots).


The function is intended for use in formatting lengthy SQL statements to a fixed length.


## Examples


Default truncation length 64:


```
SELECT sys.format_statement(
  'SELECT field1, field2, field3, field4, field5, field6 FROM table1'
  ) AS formatted_statement;
+-------------------------------------------------------------------+
| formatted_statement                                               |
+-------------------------------------------------------------------+
| SELECT field1, field2, field3, ... d4, field5, field6 FROM table1 |
+-------------------------------------------------------------------+
```

Reducing the truncation length to 48:


```
SET @sys.statement_truncate_len = 48;

SELECT sys.format_statement( 
  'SELECT field1, field2, field3, field4, field5, field6 FROM table1'
  ) AS formatted_statement;
+---------------------------------------------------+
| formatted_statement                               |
+---------------------------------------------------+
| SELECT field1, field2, ... d5, field6 FROM table1 |
+---------------------------------------------------+
```


<sub>_This page is licensed: CC BY-SA / Gnu FDL_</sub>


{% @marketo/form formId="4316" %}

Commit message:

GITBOOK-928: Syntax highlighting. Hints re. version introduced. Formatting.

server/reference/sql-statements/administrative-sql-statements/system-tables/sys-schema/sys-schema-stored-functions/format_statement.md, after:

# format\_statement

{% include "../../../../../../.gitbook/includes/sys-schema-is-available-fro....md" %}

## Syntax

```
sys.format_statement(statement)
```

## Description

Returns a reduced length string. The length is specified by the [statement\_truncate\_len configuration option](../sys-schema-sys_config-table.md) (default 64), and the removed part of the string (if any) is replaced with an ellipsis (three dots).

The function is intended for use in formatting lengthy SQL statements to a fixed length.

## Examples

Default truncation length 64:

```sql
SELECT sys.format_statement(
  'SELECT field1, field2, field3, field4, field5, field6 FROM table1'
  ) AS formatted_statement;
+-------------------------------------------------------------------+
| formatted_statement                                               |
+-------------------------------------------------------------------+
| SELECT field1, field2, field3, ... d4, field5, field6 FROM table1 |
+-------------------------------------------------------------------+
```

Reducing the truncation length to 48:

```sql
SET @sys.statement_truncate_len = 48;

SELECT sys.format_statement( 
  'SELECT field1, field2, field3, field4, field5, field6 FROM table1'
  ) AS formatted_statement;
+---------------------------------------------------+
| formatted_statement                               |
+---------------------------------------------------+
| SELECT field1, field2, ... d5, field6 FROM table1 |
+---------------------------------------------------+
```

<sub>_This page is licensed: CC BY-SA / Gnu FDL_</sub>

{% @marketo/form formId="4316" %}
