server/reference/sql-statements/administrative-sql-statements/system-tables/sys-schema/sys-schema-stored-functions/ps_is_instrument_default_timed.md, before:

# ps\_is\_instrument\_default\_timed

## Syntax

```
sys.ps_is_instrument_default_timed(instrument)
```

## Description

`ps_is_instrument_default_timed` is a [stored function](../../../../../../server-usage/stored-routines/stored-functions/) available with the [Sys Schema](../).

It returns `YES` if the given Performance Schema _instrument_ is timed by default, and `NO` if it is not, does not exist, or is a NULL value.

## Examples

```
SELECT sys.ps_is_instrument_default_timed('statement/sql/select');
+------------------------------------------------------------+
| sys.ps_is_instrument_default_timed('statement/sql/select') |
+------------------------------------------------------------+
| YES                                                        |
+------------------------------------------------------------+

SELECT sys.ps_is_instrument_default_timed('memory/sql/udf_mem');
+----------------------------------------------------------+
| sys.ps_is_instrument_default_timed('memory/sql/udf_mem') |
+----------------------------------------------------------+
| NO                                                       |
+----------------------------------------------------------+

SELECT sys.ps_is_instrument_default_timed('memory/sql/nonexistent');
+-------------------------------------------------------------+
| sys.ps_is_instrument_default_timed('memory/sql/udf_memsds') |
+-------------------------------------------------------------+
| NO                                                          |
+-------------------------------------------------------------+

SELECT sys.ps_is_instrument_default_timed(NULL);
+------------------------------------------+
| sys.ps_is_instrument_default_timed(NULL) |
+------------------------------------------+
| NO                                       |
+------------------------------------------+
```

<sub>_This page is licensed: CC BY-SA / Gnu FDL_</sub>

{% @marketo/form formId="4316" %}

Commit message:

GITBOOK-928: Syntax highlighting. Hints re. version introduced. Formatting.

server/reference/sql-statements/administrative-sql-statements/system-tables/sys-schema/sys-schema-stored-functions/ps_is_instrument_default_timed.md, after:

# ps\_is\_instrument\_default\_timed

{% include "../../../../../../.gitbook/includes/sys-schema-is-available-fro....md" %}

## Syntax

```
sys.ps_is_instrument_default_timed(instrument)
```

## Description

`ps_is_instrument_default_timed` is a [stored function](../../../../../../server-usage/stored-routines/stored-functions/) available with the [Sys Schema](../).

It returns `YES` if the given Performance Schema _instrument_ is timed by default, and `NO` if it is not, does not exist, or is a `NULL` value.

## Examples

```sql
SELECT sys.ps_is_instrument_default_timed('statement/sql/select');
+------------------------------------------------------------+
| sys.ps_is_instrument_default_timed('statement/sql/select') |
+------------------------------------------------------------+
| YES                                                        |
+------------------------------------------------------------+

SELECT sys.ps_is_instrument_default_timed('memory/sql/udf_mem');
+----------------------------------------------------------+
| sys.ps_is_instrument_default_timed('memory/sql/udf_mem') |
+----------------------------------------------------------+
| NO                                                       |
+----------------------------------------------------------+

SELECT sys.ps_is_instrument_default_timed('memory/sql/nonexistent');
+-------------------------------------------------------------+
| sys.ps_is_instrument_default_timed('memory/sql/udf_memsds') |
+-------------------------------------------------------------+
| NO                                                          |
+-------------------------------------------------------------+

SELECT sys.ps_is_instrument_default_timed(NULL);
+------------------------------------------+
| sys.ps_is_instrument_default_timed(NULL) |
+------------------------------------------+
| NO                                       |
+------------------------------------------+
```

<sub>_This page is licensed: CC BY-SA / Gnu FDL_</sub>

{% @marketo/form formId="4316" %}
