server/reference/sql-statements/administrative-sql-statements/system-tables/sys-schema/sys-schema-stored-functions/quote_identifier.md, before:

# quote\_identifier

## Syntax

```
sys.quote_identifier(str)
```

## Description

`quote_identifier` is a [stored function](../../../../../../server-usage/stored-routines/stored-functions/) available with the [Sys Schema](../).

It quotes a string to produce a result that can be used as an identifier in an\
SQL statement. The string is returned enclosed by backticks ("`") and with each instance of backtick ("`") doubled. If the argument\
is `NULL`, the return value is the word "`NULL`" without enclosing\
backticks.

## Examples

```
SELECT sys.quote_identifier("Identifier with spaces");
+------------------------------------------------+
| sys.quote_identifier("Identifier with spaces") |
+------------------------------------------------+
| `Identifier with spaces`                       |
+------------------------------------------------+

SELECT sys.quote_identifier("Identifier` containing `backticks");
+-----------------------------------------------------------+
| sys.quote_identifier("Identifier` containing `backticks") |
+-----------------------------------------------------------+
| `Identifier`` containing ``backticks`                     |
+-----------------------------------------------------------+
```

<sub>_This page is licensed: CC BY-SA / Gnu FDL_</sub>

{% @marketo/form formId="4316" %}

Commit message:

GITBOOK-928: Syntax highlighting. Hints re. version introduced. Formatting.

server/reference/sql-statements/administrative-sql-statements/system-tables/sys-schema/sys-schema-stored-functions/quote_identifier.md, after:

# quote\_identifier

{% include "../../../../../../.gitbook/includes/sys-schema-is-available-fro....md" %}

## Syntax

```
sys.quote_identifier(str)
```

## Description

`quote_identifier` is a [stored function](../../../../../../server-usage/stored-routines/stored-functions/) available with the [Sys Schema](../).

It quotes a string to produce a result that can be used as an identifier in an SQL statement. The string is returned enclosed by backticks ("`") and with each instance of backtick ("`") doubled. If the argument is `NULL`, the return value is the word "`NULL`" without enclosing backticks.

## Examples

```sql
SELECT sys.quote_identifier("Identifier with spaces");
+------------------------------------------------+
| sys.quote_identifier("Identifier with spaces") |
+------------------------------------------------+
| `Identifier with spaces`                       |
+------------------------------------------------+

SELECT sys.quote_identifier("Identifier` containing `backticks");
+-----------------------------------------------------------+
| sys.quote_identifier("Identifier` containing `backticks") |
+-----------------------------------------------------------+
| `Identifier`` containing ``backticks`                     |
+-----------------------------------------------------------+
```

<sub>_This page is licensed: CC BY-SA / Gnu FDL_</sub>

{% @marketo/form formId="4316" %}
