server/reference/sql-statements/administrative-sql-statements/system-tables/sys-schema/sys-schema-stored-functions/sys_get_config.md, before:

# sys\_get\_config

## Syntax

```
sys.sys_get_config(name,default)
```

## Description

`sys_get_config` is a [stored function](../../../../../../server-usage/stored-routines/stored-functions/) available with the [Sys Schema](../).

The function returns a configuration option value from the [sys\_config table](../sys-schema-sys_config-table.md). It takes two arguments; _name_, a configuration option name, and _default_, which is returned if the given option does not exist in the table.

Both arguments are VARCHAR(128) and can be NULL. Returns NULL if _name_ is NULL, or if the given option is not found and _default_ is NULL.

## Examples

```
SELECT sys.sys_get_config('ps_thread_trx_info.max_length',NULL);
+----------------------------------------------------------+
| sys.sys_get_config('ps_thread_trx_info.max_length',NULL) |
+----------------------------------------------------------+
| 65535                                                    |
+----------------------------------------------------------+
```

## See Also

* [Sys Schema sys\_config Table](../sys-schema-sys_config-table.md)

<sub>_This page is licensed: CC BY-SA / Gnu FDL_</sub>

{% @marketo/form formId="4316" %}

Commit message:

GITBOOK-928: Syntax highlighting. Hints re. version introduced. Formatting.

server/reference/sql-statements/administrative-sql-statements/system-tables/sys-schema/sys-schema-stored-functions/sys_get_config.md, after:

# sys\_get\_config

{% include "../../../../../../.gitbook/includes/sys-schema-is-available-fro....md" %}

## Syntax

```
sys.sys_get_config(name,default)
```

## Description

`sys_get_config` is a [stored function](../../../../../../server-usage/stored-routines/stored-functions/) available with the [Sys Schema](../).

The function returns a configuration option value from the [sys\_config table](../sys-schema-sys_config-table.md). It takes two arguments; _name_, a configuration option name, and _default_, which is returned if the given option does not exist in the table.

Both arguments are `VARCHAR(128)` and can be `NULL`. Returns `NULL` if _name_ is `NULL`, or if the given option is not found and _default_ is `NULL`.

## Examples

```sql
SELECT sys.sys_get_config('ps_thread_trx_info.max_length',NULL);
+----------------------------------------------------------+
| sys.sys_get_config('ps_thread_trx_info.max_length',NULL) |
+----------------------------------------------------------+
| 65535                                                    |
+----------------------------------------------------------+
```

## See Also

* [Sys Schema sys\_config Table](../sys-schema-sys_config-table.md)

<sub>_This page is licensed: CC BY-SA / Gnu FDL_</sub>

{% @marketo/form formId="4316" %}
