# Add multiple MaxScale monitors

Created by Egor Ustinov, last modified by Tauseef Khan on Oct 08, 2025

Not validated steps

MariaDB Enterprise Manager allows you to monitor multiple logical databases or clusters that are managed by the same set of high-availability MaxScale instances. After adding your first MaxScale instance, you can easily add more monitors to track different services without re-entering the connection details.

{% hint style="info" %}
Default Monitor Behavior

If you add a database from a MaxScale setup that has multiple monitors and do not explicitly select one, Enterprise Manager will **automatically assign the first available monitor** by default. To ensure you are tracking the correct service, it's best to specify the monitor manually.
{% endhint %}

## Adding an Additional Monitor

Follow these steps to add another logical database that is monitored by the same MaxScale deployment.

{% stepper %}
{% step %}
### Add a new monitored logical database

* Navigate to your main database inventory page.
* Locate the existing logical database that is associated with your MaxScale deployment.
* Click the **three-dot menu icon (⋮)** on the right side of the database entry to open the context menu and select **Add Monitor**.\

{% endstep %}

{% step %}
### Configure the new monitor

* In the dialog box that appears, provide a new **Logical Database Name** and select the specific **MaxScale Monitor** you wish to track from the dropdown list.
* Click the **Confirm** button to add the new monitored database.
{% endstep %}
{% endstepper %}

## Changing the Monitor for an Existing Database

If you need to change which MaxScale monitor an existing logical database is tracking, follow these steps.

{% stepper %}
{% step %}
### Open the database edit menu

* Navigate to your main database inventory page and locate the logical database you wish to edit.
* Click the **three-dot menu icon (⋮)** on the right side of the database entry.
* Select the **Edit** option from the menu.
{% endstep %}

{% step %}
### Select a different monitor

* In the configuration window, scroll down to the **Advanced** section.
* From the **Monitor name** dropdown, select the new MaxScale monitor you want this logical database to track.\

* Click the **Confirm** button to save your changes.
{% endstep %}
{% endstepper %}

## Attachments

* &#x20;[image-20251008-131508.png](broken-reference) (image/png)
* &#x20;[image-20251008-131705.png](broken-reference) (image/png)

Document generated by Confluence on Oct 13, 2025 16:28

http://www.atlassian.com/
