# MariaDB MaxScale 22.08 Changelog

* Sessions can now be restarted so that added server are taken into use.
* Sessions can now be killed using maxctrl.
* MariaDBMonitor can use mariadb-backup to clone the contents of a server.
* MariaDBMonitor can issue ColumnStore commands similar to CSMon
* MariaDBMonitor settings `ignore_external_masters`, `detect_replication_lagdetect_standalone_master`, `detect_stale_master` and `detect_stale_slave`
  have been removed. The first two were ineffective, the latter three are
  replaced by `master_conditions` and `slave_conditions`.
* A new Query Rewrite filter, using which queries can be rewritten based
  upon a template, has been added.
* MaxScale no longer logs to both the SystemD journal and MaxScale log by
  default: the default value of `syslog` was changed from `true` to `false` to
  reduce the amount of redundant log messages that are logged. To retain the old
  behavior of logging to both MaxScale's own files and to the SystemD journal,
  add `syslog=true` under the `[maxscale]` section.
* The `dbfwfilter` module that was deprecated in version 6 has now been removed.
* MaxGUI Query Editor has changed the type of browser storage from local storage
  to IndexedDB. As the result, query history, favorite, and configuration are reset.
  Apart from that, query favorite was renamed to query snippets allowing to quickly
  insert the query to the editor by typing its prefix. See MaxGUI tutorial [Using-MaxGUI-Tutorial](https://app.gitbook.com/s/0pSbu5DcMSW4KwAkUcmX/maxscale-archive/archive/mariadb-maxscale-22.08/mariadb-maxscale-2208-tutorials/mariadb-maxscale-2208-using-maxgui-tutorial)
* The Xpand monitor now handles group change explicitly.
* The `Maintenance|Drain` state of a server is now synchronized between multiple
  MaxScale instances if configuration synchronization is enabled.
* Causal reads now supported in a multi-MaxScale setup.
* The [csmon](https://app.gitbook.com/s/0pSbu5DcMSW4KwAkUcmX/maxscale-archive/archive/mariadb-maxscale-22.08/mariadb-maxscale-2208-monitors/mariadb-maxscale-2208-columnstore-monitor) and [auroramon](https://app.gitbook.com/s/0pSbu5DcMSW4KwAkUcmX/maxscale-archive/archive/mariadb-maxscale-22.08/mariadb-maxscale-2208-monitors/mariadb-maxscale-2208-aurora-monitor)
  monitors are deprecated in 22.08.2 and will be removed in 23.02.0.

For more details, please refer to:

* [MariaDB MaxScale 22.08.19 Release Notes](22.08.19.md)
* [MariaDB MaxScale 22.08.18 Release Notes](22.08.18.md)
* [MariaDB MaxScale 22.08.17 Release Notes](22.08.17.md)
* [MariaDB MaxScale 22.08.16 Release Notes](22.08.16.md)
* [MariaDB MaxScale 22.08.15 Release Notes](22.08.15.md)
* [MariaDB MaxScale 22.08.14 Release Notes](22.08.14.md)
* [MariaDB MaxScale 22.08.13 Release Notes](22.08.13.md)
* [MariaDB MaxScale 22.08.12 Release Notes](22.08.12.md)
* [MariaDB MaxScale 22.08.11 Release Notes](22.08.11.md)
* [MariaDB MaxScale 22.08.10 Release Notes](22.08.10.md)
* [MariaDB MaxScale 22.08.9 Release Notes](22.08.9.md)
* [MariaDB MaxScale 22.08.8 Release Notes](22.08.8.md)
* [MariaDB MaxScale 22.08.7 Release Notes](22.08.7.md)
* [MariaDB MaxScale 22.08.6 Release Notes](22.08.6.md)
* [MariaDB MaxScale 22.08.5 Release Notes](22.08.5.md)
* [MariaDB MaxScale 22.08.4 Release Notes](22.08.4.md)
* [MariaDB MaxScale 22.08.3 Release Notes](22.08.3.md)
* [MariaDB MaxScale 22.08.2 Release Notes](22.08.2.md)
* [MariaDB MaxScale 22.08.1 Release Notes](22.08.1.md)

The changelog for the previous MaxScale version can be found [here](../21.06/21.06-changelog.md).

CC BY-SA / Gnu FDL
