# Authentication Plugins

When a user attempts to log in, the authentication plugin controls how MariaDB Server determines whether the connection is from a legitimate user.

When creating or altering a user account with the [GRANT](../../sql-statements/account-management-sql-statements/grant.md), [CREATE USER](../../sql-statements/account-management-sql-statements/create-user.md) or [ALTER USER](../../sql-statements/account-management-sql-statements/alter-user.md) statements, you can specify the authentication plugin you want the user account to use by providing the `IDENTIFIED VIA` clause. By default, when you create a user account without specifying an authentication plugin, MariaDB uses the [mysql\_native\_password](authentication-plugin-mysql_native_password.md) plugin.

From [MariaDB 10.4](https://app.gitbook.com/s/aEnK0ZXmUbJzqQrTjFyb/mariadb-community-server-release-notes/old-releases/release-notes-mariadb-10-4-series/what-is-mariadb-104):

* One can specify multiple authentication plugins for each user account.
* The `root@localhost` user created by [mariadb-install-db](../../../clients-and-utilities/mariadb-install-db.md) is created with the ability to use two authentication plugins. First, it is configured to try to use the [unix\_socket](authentication-plugin-unix-socket.md) authentication plugin. This allows the the `root@localhost` user to login without a password via the local Unix socket file defined by the [socket](../../../ha-and-performance/optimization-and-tuning/system-variables/server-system-variables.md#socket) system variable, as long as the login is attempted from a process owned by the operating system `root` user account. Second, if authentication fails with the [unix\_socket](authentication-plugin-unix-socket.md) authentication plugin, then it is configured to try to use the [mysql\_native\_password](authentication-plugin-mysql_native_password.md) authentication plugin. However, an invalid password is initially set, so in order to authenticate this way, a password must be set with [SET PASSWORD](../../sql-statements/account-management-sql-statements/set-password.md).
