# MariaDB MaxScale 23.08 Changelog

* The global setting `skip_permission_checks` has been deprecated and is
  ignored. Monitors start regardless of monitor user permissions.
* The uppercase versions of the `slave_selection_criteria` parameter in
  readwritesplit have been deprecated. All runtime modifications to the
  parameters are now saved using the lowercase versions.
* By default, readwritesplit will not replay transactions that are about to
  commit when `transaction_replay` is enabled. To retain the old behavior where
  transactions were always replayed, disable `transaction_replay_safe_commit`.
* Readwritesplit will now retry queries with partially returned results if they
  are done inside a transaction and `transaction_replay` is enabled.
* `prune_sescmd_history` now also performs history simplification by removing
  redundant executions of the same statement. This will reduce memory usage in
  the case when history repeats a small cycle of commands. One example of this
  is connection pools that prepare the connection with a small set of commands
  like `SET NAMES` and `SET SQL_MODE`.
* Common configuration settings can now be specified in a separate section,
  to be included by other sections.
* When changing the service password, the previous password will be retained
  and continue to be used if the new does not work.
* Embedded newlines are removed from logged messages.
* Schemarouter database map caches can be cleared with `maxctrl call command schemarouter clear <service>` where `<service>` is a service that uses the
  schemarouter.
* Schemarouter now allows stale cache entries to be used while the database map
  cache is being updated. By default the entries are usable for 150 seconds
  after they have gone stale. This limit can be configured with the`max_staleness` parameter.
* Added switchover-force command to MariaDB Monitor. This command performs a
  switchover even if primary server is unresponsive.
* Switchover now uses a longer command timeout on the old master. This should
  remove the need for adjusting monitor setting `backend_read_timeout` to get
  switchover to work.
* The NoSQL protocol now provides internal caching.
* Additional metadata is sent in the connection handshake. For more information,
  refer to the [parameter](https://app.gitbook.com/s/0pSbu5DcMSW4KwAkUcmX/maxscale-archive/archive/mariadb-maxscale-23.08/mariadb-maxscale-23-08-getting-started/mariadb-maxscale-2308-mariadb-maxscale-configuration-guide#connection_metadata)
  documentation.
* The `connection_timeout` parameter was renamed to `wait_timeout` to make the
  naming of the parameters the same in MaxScale and MariaDB server. The old`connection_timeout` parameter is now an alias to `wait_timeout` and its use
  has been deprecated. If used, a warning will be logged that the parameter is
  deprecated.
* The `strip_db_esc` parameter has been deprecated. The default behavior of
  stripping the escape characters is in all known cases the correct thing to
  do. Only broken legacy versions where the grants would be returned without
  backslash escaping would require this parameter to work.
* The Xpand monitor is now region aware.
* Passthrough authentication mode added to MariaDBAuth-module. See [authenticator documentation](https://app.gitbook.com/s/0pSbu5DcMSW4KwAkUcmX/maxscale-archive/archive/mariadb-maxscale-23.08/mariadb-maxscale-23-08-authenticators/mariadb-maxscale-2308-mariadbmysql-authenticator#clear_pw_passthrough) for more
  information.
* Added `pam_mode=suid` option to PamAuth module. This option separates the
  pam system library calls to a separate executable. See [authenticator documentation](maxscale-archive/archive/mariadb-maxscale-23.08/mariadb-maxscale-23-08-authenticators/mariadb-maxscale-2308-pam-authenticator#pam_mode)
  for more information. test\_pam\_login tool updated to support this mode.
* Added `disk_space_ok` option to MariaDB Monitor settings `master_conditions`
  and `slave_conditions`. Enabled by default in `master_conditions`. See [monitor documentation](https://app.gitbook.com/s/0pSbu5DcMSW4KwAkUcmX/maxscale-archive/archive/mariadb-maxscale-23.08/mariadb-maxscale-23-08-monitors/mariadb-maxscale-2308-mariadb-monitor#master_conditions)
  for more information. Only available in MaxScale 23.08.5, 24.02.1 and later.

For more details, please refer to:

* [MariaDB MaxScale 23.08.11 Release Notes](23.08.11.md)
* [MariaDB MaxScale 23.08.10 Release Notes](23.08.10.md)
* [MariaDB MaxScale 23.08.9 Release Notes](23.08.9.md)
* [MariaDB MaxScale 23.08.8 Release Notes](23.08.8.md)
* [MariaDB MaxScale 23.08.7 Release Notes](23.08.7.md)
* [MariaDB MaxScale 23.08.6 Release Notes](23.08.6.md)
* [MariaDB MaxScale 23.08.5 Release Notes](23.08.5.md)
* [MariaDB MaxScale 23.08.4 Release Notes](23.08.4.md)
* [MariaDB MaxScale 23.08.3 Release Notes](23.08.3.md)
* [MariaDB MaxScale 23.08.2 Release Notes](23.08.2.md)
* [MariaDB MaxScale 23.08.1 Release Notes](23.08.1.md)
* [MariaDB MaxScale 23.08.0 Release Notes](23.08.0.md)

The changelog for the previous MaxScale version can be found [here](../23.02/23.02-changelog.md).

CC BY-SA / Gnu FDL
