server/reference/sql-statements/administrative-sql-statements/system-tables/performance-schema/performance-schema-tables/performance-schema-events_transactions_summary_by_user_by_event_name-table.md, before:

# Performance Schema events\_transactions\_summary\_by\_user\_by\_event\_name Table

**MariaDB starting with** [**10.5.2**](https://app.gitbook.com/s/aEnK0ZXmUbJzqQrTjFyb/mariadb-community-server-release-notes/old-releases/mariadb-10-5-series/mariadb-1052-release-notes)

The events\_transactions\_summary\_by\_user\_by\_event\_name table was introduced in [MariaDB 10.5.2](https://app.gitbook.com/s/aEnK0ZXmUbJzqQrTjFyb/mariadb-community-server-release-notes/old-releases/mariadb-10-5-series/mariadb-1052-release-notes).

The `events_transactions_summary_by_user_by_event_name` table contains information on transaction events aggregated by user and event name.

The table contains the following columns:

```
+----------------------+---------------------+------+-----+---------+-------+
| Field                | Type                | Null | Key | Default | Extra |
+----------------------+---------------------+------+-----+---------+-------+
| USER                 | char(32)            | YES  |     | NULL    |       |
| EVENT_NAME           | varchar(128)        | NO   |     | NULL    |       |
| COUNT_STAR           | bigint(20) unsigned | NO   |     | NULL    |       |
| SUM_TIMER_WAIT       | bigint(20) unsigned | NO   |     | NULL    |       |
| MIN_TIMER_WAIT       | bigint(20) unsigned | NO   |     | NULL    |       |
| AVG_TIMER_WAIT       | bigint(20) unsigned | NO   |     | NULL    |       |
| MAX_TIMER_WAIT       | bigint(20) unsigned | NO   |     | NULL    |       |
| COUNT_READ_WRITE     | bigint(20) unsigned | NO   |     | NULL    |       |
| SUM_TIMER_READ_WRITE | bigint(20) unsigned | NO   |     | NULL    |       |
| MIN_TIMER_READ_WRITE | bigint(20) unsigned | NO   |     | NULL    |       |
| AVG_TIMER_READ_WRITE | bigint(20) unsigned | NO   |     | NULL    |       |
| MAX_TIMER_READ_WRITE | bigint(20) unsigned | NO   |     | NULL    |       |
| COUNT_READ_ONLY      | bigint(20) unsigned | NO   |     | NULL    |       |
| SUM_TIMER_READ_ONLY  | bigint(20) unsigned | NO   |     | NULL    |       |
| MIN_TIMER_READ_ONLY  | bigint(20) unsigned | NO   |     | NULL    |       |
| AVG_TIMER_READ_ONLY  | bigint(20) unsigned | NO   |     | NULL    |       |
| MAX_TIMER_READ_ONLY  | bigint(20) unsigned | NO   |     | NULL    |       |
+----------------------+---------------------+------+-----+---------+-------+
```

<sub>_This page is licensed: CC BY-SA / Gnu FDL_</sub>

{% @marketo/form formId="4316" %}

Commit message:

GITBOOK-927: Broken links. Formatting. Hints re. version introduced.

server/reference/sql-statements/administrative-sql-statements/system-tables/performance-schema/performance-schema-tables/performance-schema-events_transactions_summary_by_user_by_event_name-table.md, after:

# Performance Schema events\_transactions\_summary\_by\_user\_by\_event\_name Table

{% hint style="info" %}
The `events_transactions_summary_by_user_by_event_name` table is available from MariaDB 10.5.2.
{% endhint %}

The `events_transactions_summary_by_user_by_event_name` table contains information on transaction events aggregated by user and event name.

The table contains the following columns:

```sql
+----------------------+---------------------+------+-----+---------+-------+
| Field                | Type                | Null | Key | Default | Extra |
+----------------------+---------------------+------+-----+---------+-------+
| USER                 | char(32)            | YES  |     | NULL    |       |
| EVENT_NAME           | varchar(128)        | NO   |     | NULL    |       |
| COUNT_STAR           | bigint(20) unsigned | NO   |     | NULL    |       |
| SUM_TIMER_WAIT       | bigint(20) unsigned | NO   |     | NULL    |       |
| MIN_TIMER_WAIT       | bigint(20) unsigned | NO   |     | NULL    |       |
| AVG_TIMER_WAIT       | bigint(20) unsigned | NO   |     | NULL    |       |
| MAX_TIMER_WAIT       | bigint(20) unsigned | NO   |     | NULL    |       |
| COUNT_READ_WRITE     | bigint(20) unsigned | NO   |     | NULL    |       |
| SUM_TIMER_READ_WRITE | bigint(20) unsigned | NO   |     | NULL    |       |
| MIN_TIMER_READ_WRITE | bigint(20) unsigned | NO   |     | NULL    |       |
| AVG_TIMER_READ_WRITE | bigint(20) unsigned | NO   |     | NULL    |       |
| MAX_TIMER_READ_WRITE | bigint(20) unsigned | NO   |     | NULL    |       |
| COUNT_READ_ONLY      | bigint(20) unsigned | NO   |     | NULL    |       |
| SUM_TIMER_READ_ONLY  | bigint(20) unsigned | NO   |     | NULL    |       |
| MIN_TIMER_READ_ONLY  | bigint(20) unsigned | NO   |     | NULL    |       |
| AVG_TIMER_READ_ONLY  | bigint(20) unsigned | NO   |     | NULL    |       |
| MAX_TIMER_READ_ONLY  | bigint(20) unsigned | NO   |     | NULL    |       |
+----------------------+---------------------+------+-----+---------+-------+
```

<sub>_This page is licensed: CC BY-SA / Gnu FDL_</sub>

{% @marketo/form formId="4316" %}
