
# Error 1160: Got an error writing communication packets


| Error Code | SQLSTATE | Error | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Error Code | SQLSTATE | Error | Description |
| 1160 | 08S01 | ER_NET_ERROR_ON_WRITE | Got an error writing communication packets |




## Possible Causes


This error tells us that the connection between the server and client was aborted.
The most common cause is that the client hard-aborted the connection, without calling mysql_close().
It could also be a problem with the connection to the server, such as a wrong or lost package.


## How to Find Out More


The [error log](../../../../../server-management/server-monitoring-logs/error-log.md) may have more information about the cause of the error.
Setting the MariaDB server option [log_warnings](../../../../../server-usage/replication-cluster-multi-master/optimization-and-tuning/system-variables/server-system-variables.md#log_warnings) to a value of 4 or above can generate more diagnostic warnings in the error log when there is a problem reading packages:


```
2024-02-17 12:32:45 5461 [ERROR] mariadbd: Could not write packet: fd: 406  state: 2  errno: 32  vio_errno: 1160  length: 34
```

How to interpret the above:


* `5461` is the connection id that got the warning/error.
* `fd: 406` 406 is the file descriptor that had a problem.
* `state: 2`
* `length: 34` is how many characters the server tried to wrote to the file.
* `errno 32` is the system error code (more below).
* `vio_errno: 1160` is our internal error code from the vio library, which stands for ER_NET_WRITE_ERROR "Got an error writing communication packets".
* `length: -1` is how many characters was reported to be read from the read() system call. -1 indicates failure. If `length` <= `read_length` then something broke in the communication.


You can use the perror utility to get a description of system and storage engine errors:


```
shell> perror 104
OS error code 104: Connection reset by peer
```

This means the connection was aborted by the application/user.


## How to Fix


* Ensure you have a stable internet connection.
* Ensure that your applications calls mysql_close() for all open connections before exiting.


## See Also


* [perror](../../../../../clients-and-utilities/perror.md) Getting a description for an error number.

