tools/mariadb-enterprise-operator/installation/openshift.md, before:

# OpenShift

This documentation provides guidance on installing the MariaDB Enterprise Kubernetes Operator operator in OpenShift. This operator has been [certified by Red Hat](https://connect.redhat.com/en/partner-with-us/what-are-operators) and it is available in the OpenShift console.

Operators are deployed into OpenShift with the [Operator Lifecycle Manager (OLM)](https://olm.operatorframework.io/), which facilitates the installation, updates, and overall management of their lifecycle.

## Prerequisites

Configure your [customer credentials as described in the documentation](../customer-access-to-docker-mariadb-com.md#openshift) to be able to pull images.

The recommended way to configure credentials is to use the [global pull secret](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/openshift_container_platform/4.18/html/images/managing-images#images-update-global-pull-secret_using-image-pull-secrets) provided by OpenShift, as described [in this section](../customer-access-to-docker-mariadb-com.md#openshift). Alternatively, the operator bundle has a `mariadb-enterprise` `imagePullSecret` configured by default. This means that you can configure a `Secret` named `mariadb-enterprise` in same namespace where the operator will be installed in order to pull images from the MariaDB Enterprise registry.

## `PackageManifest`

You can install the certified operator in OpenShift clusters that have the `mariadb-enterprise-operator` `packagemanifest` available. In order to check this, run the following command:

```sh
oc get packagemanifests -n openshift-marketplace mariadb-enterprise-operator

NAME                          CATALOG                 AGE
mariadb-enterprise-operator   Certified Operators     21h
```

## `SecurityContextConstraints`

Both the operator and the operand `Pods` run with the `restricted-v2` `SecurityContextConstraint`, the most restrictive SCC in OpenShift in terms of container permissions. This implies that OpenShift automatically assigns a `SecurityContext` for the `Pods` with minimum permissions, for example:

```yaml
securityContext:
  allowPrivilegeEscalation: false
  capabilities:
    drop:
    - ALL
  runAsNonRoot: true
  runAsUser: 1000650000
```

{% hint style="warning" %}
OpenShift does not assign `SecurityContexts` in the `default` and `kube-system` namespaces. Please refrain from deploying operands on them, as it will result in permission errors when trying to write to the filesystem.
{% endhint %}

You can read more about [SecurityContextConstraints in the OpenShift documentation](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/openshift_container_platform/4.18/html/authentication_and_authorization/managing-pod-security-policies).

## Installation in all namespaces

To install the operator watching resources on all namespaces, you need to create a `Subscription` object for `mariadb-enterprise-operator` using the `stable` channel in the `openshift-operators` namespace:

```yaml
apiVersion: operators.coreos.com/v1alpha1
kind: Subscription
metadata:
  name: mariadb-enterprise-operator
  namespace: openshift-operators
spec:
  channel: stable
  installPlanApproval: Automatic
  name: mariadb-enterprise-operator
  source: certified-operators
  sourceNamespace: openshift-marketplace
  startingCSV: mariadb-enterprise-operator.v1.0.0
```

This will use the `global-operators` `OperatorGroup` that is created by default in the `openshift-operators` namespace. This `OperatorGroup` will watch all namespaces in the cluster, and the operator will be able to manage resources across all namespaces.

You can read more about [OperatorGroups in the OpenShift documentation](https://olm.operatorframework.io/docs/concepts/crds/operatorgroup/).

## Installation in specific namespaces

In order to define which namespaces the operator will be watching, you need to create an `OperatorGroup` in the namespace where the operator will be installed:

```yaml
apiVersion: operators.coreos.com/v1
kind: OperatorGroup
metadata:
  name: mariadb-enterprise-operator
  namespace: my-namespace
spec:
  targetNamespaces:
  - my-namespace
  - my-other-namespace
  - my-other-other-namespace
  upgradeStrategy: Default
```

This `OperatorGroup` will watch the namespaces defined in the `targetNamespaces` field. The operator will be able to manage resources only in these namespaces.

Then, the operator can be installed by creating a `Subscription` object in the same namespace as the `OperatorGroup`:

```yaml
apiVersion: operators.coreos.com/v1alpha1
kind: Subscription
metadata:
  name: mariadb-enterprise-operator
  namespace: my-namespace
spec:
  channel: stable
  installPlanApproval: Automatic
  name: mariadb-enterprise-operator
  source: certified-operators
  sourceNamespace: openshift-marketplace
  startingCSV: mariadb-enterprise-operator.v1.0.0
```

## Release channels

Currently, the only release channel available to install the operator is `stable`, which contains supported releases of the operator. This is controlled by the `channel` field in the `Subscription` object.

## Updates

Updates are fully managed by OLM and controlled by the `installPlanApproval` field in the `Subscription` object. The default value is `Automatic`, which means that OLM will automatically update the operator to the latest version available in the channel. If you want to control the updates, you can set this field to `Manual`, and OLM will only update the operator when you approve the update.

## Uninstalling

The first step for uninstalling the operator is to delete the `Subscription` object. This will not remove the operator, but it will stop OLM from managing the operator:

```sh
oc delete subscription mariadb-enterprise-operator
```

After that, you can uninstall the `ClusterServiceVersion` (CSV) object that was created by OLM. This will remove the operator from the cluster:

```sh
oc delete clusterserviceversion mariadb-enterprise-operator.v1.0.0
```

## OpenShift console

As an alternative to create `Subscription` objects via the command line, you can install operators by using the OpenShift console. Go to the `Operators > OperatorHub` section and search by `mariadb enterprise`:

![](../../.gitbook/assets/certified-operator.png)

Select `MariaDB Enterprise Kubernetes Operator`, click on install, and you will be able to create a `Subscription` object via the UI.

Once deployed, the operator comes with example resources that can be deployed from the console directly. For instance, to create a `MariaDB`:

![](../../.gitbook/assets/openshift-console-form.png)

As you can see in the previous screenshot, the form view that the OpenShift console offers is limited, we recommend using the YAML view:

![](../../.gitbook/assets/openshift-console-yaml.png)

{% include "https://app.gitbook.com/s/SsmexDFPv2xG2OTyO5yV/~/reusable/pNHZQXPP5OEz2TgvhFva/" %}

{% @marketo/form formId="4316" %}

Commit message:

docs: Added OpenShift channels docs
As a start we aim to have 2 channels. This should be merged at a later point when we have the channels prepared

tools/mariadb-enterprise-operator/installation/openshift.md, after:

# OpenShift

This documentation provides guidance on installing the MariaDB Enterprise Kubernetes Operator operator in OpenShift. This operator has been [certified by Red Hat](https://connect.redhat.com/en/partner-with-us/what-are-operators) and it is available in the OpenShift console.

Operators are deployed into OpenShift with the [Operator Lifecycle Manager (OLM)](https://olm.operatorframework.io/), which facilitates the installation, updates, and overall management of their lifecycle.

## Prerequisites

Configure your [customer credentials as described in the documentation](../customer-access-to-docker-mariadb-com.md#openshift) to be able to pull images.

The recommended way to configure credentials is to use the [global pull secret](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/openshift_container_platform/4.18/html/images/managing-images#images-update-global-pull-secret_using-image-pull-secrets) provided by OpenShift, as described [in this section](../customer-access-to-docker-mariadb-com.md#openshift). Alternatively, the operator bundle has a `mariadb-enterprise` `imagePullSecret` configured by default. This means that you can configure a `Secret` named `mariadb-enterprise` in same namespace where the operator will be installed in order to pull images from the MariaDB Enterprise registry.

## `PackageManifest`

You can install the certified operator in OpenShift clusters that have the `mariadb-enterprise-operator` `packagemanifest` available. In order to check this, run the following command:

```sh
oc get packagemanifests -n openshift-marketplace mariadb-enterprise-operator

NAME                          CATALOG                 AGE
mariadb-enterprise-operator   Certified Operators     21h
```

## `SecurityContextConstraints`

Both the operator and the operand `Pods` run with the `restricted-v2` `SecurityContextConstraint`, the most restrictive SCC in OpenShift in terms of container permissions. This implies that OpenShift automatically assigns a `SecurityContext` for the `Pods` with minimum permissions, for example:

```yaml
securityContext:
  allowPrivilegeEscalation: false
  capabilities:
    drop:
    - ALL
  runAsNonRoot: true
  runAsUser: 1000650000
```

{% hint style="warning" %}
OpenShift does not assign `SecurityContexts` in the `default` and `kube-system` namespaces. Please refrain from deploying operands on them, as it will result in permission errors when trying to write to the filesystem.
{% endhint %}

You can read more about [SecurityContextConstraints in the OpenShift documentation](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/openshift_container_platform/4.18/html/authentication_and_authorization/managing-pod-security-policies).

## Installation in all namespaces

To install the operator watching resources on all namespaces, you need to create a `Subscription` object for `mariadb-enterprise-operator` using the `stable` channel in the `openshift-operators` namespace:

```yaml
apiVersion: operators.coreos.com/v1alpha1
kind: Subscription
metadata:
  name: mariadb-enterprise-operator
  namespace: openshift-operators
spec:
  channel: stable
  installPlanApproval: Automatic
  name: mariadb-enterprise-operator
  source: certified-operators
  sourceNamespace: openshift-marketplace
```

This will use the `global-operators` `OperatorGroup` that is created by default in the `openshift-operators` namespace. This `OperatorGroup` will watch all namespaces in the cluster, and the operator will be able to manage resources across all namespaces.

You can read more about [OperatorGroups in the OpenShift documentation](https://olm.operatorframework.io/docs/concepts/crds/operatorgroup/).

## Installation in specific namespaces

In order to define which namespaces the operator will be watching, you need to create an `OperatorGroup` in the namespace where the operator will be installed:

```yaml
apiVersion: operators.coreos.com/v1
kind: OperatorGroup
metadata:
  name: mariadb-enterprise-operator
  namespace: my-namespace
spec:
  targetNamespaces:
  - my-namespace
  - my-other-namespace
  - my-other-other-namespace
  upgradeStrategy: Default
```

This `OperatorGroup` will watch the namespaces defined in the `targetNamespaces` field. The operator will be able to manage resources only in these namespaces.

Then, the operator can be installed by creating a `Subscription` object in the same namespace as the `OperatorGroup`:

```yaml
apiVersion: operators.coreos.com/v1alpha1
kind: Subscription
metadata:
  name: mariadb-enterprise-operator
  namespace: my-namespace
spec:
  channel: stable
  installPlanApproval: Automatic
  name: mariadb-enterprise-operator
  source: certified-operators
  sourceNamespace: openshift-marketplace
```

## Release channels

We maintain support across a variety of OpenShift channels to ensure compatibility with different release schedules and stability requirements. Below, you will find an overview of the specific OpenShift channels we support.

| Channel | Supported OpenShift Versions | Description | Latest Image |
|---------|------------------------------|-------------|--------------|
| `stable` | 4.19, 4.18, 4.17, 4.16 | Points to the latest stable version of the operator. This channel may span multiple major versions. **This is the recommended option.** | `mariadb-enterprise-operator:25.8.1-1` |
| `stable-v25.10` | 4.19, 4.18, 4.17, 4.16 | v25.10.x is an LTS release. This channel points to the latest **patch** release of 25.10. Use this if you require version pinning to a stable version of the operator without necessarily looking for newer features. | `mariadb-enterprise-operator:25.10.0` |

An example Subscription would look like this:

```yaml
apiVersion: operators.coreos.com/v1alpha1
kind: Subscription
metadata:
  name: mariadb-enterprise-operator
  namespace: openshift-operators
spec:
  channel: stable # Change this  to the actual channel you want
  installPlanApproval: Automatic
  name: mariadb-enterprise-operator
  source: certified-operators
  sourceNamespace: openshift-marketplace
```

## Updates

Updates are fully managed by OLM and controlled by the `installPlanApproval` field in the `Subscription` object. The default value is `Automatic`, which means that OLM will automatically update the operator to the latest version available in the channel. If you want to control the updates, you can set this field to `Manual`, and OLM will only update the operator when you approve the update.

## Uninstalling

The first step for uninstalling the operator is to delete the `Subscription` object. This will not remove the operator, but it will stop OLM from managing the operator:

```sh
oc delete subscription mariadb-enterprise-operator
```

After that, you can uninstall the `ClusterServiceVersion` (CSV) object that was created by OLM. This will remove the operator from the cluster:

```sh
oc delete clusterserviceversion mariadb-enterprise-operator.v1.0.0
```

## OpenShift console

As an alternative to create `Subscription` objects via the command line, you can install operators by using the OpenShift console. Go to the `Operators > OperatorHub` section and search by `mariadb enterprise`:

![](../../.gitbook/assets/certified-operator.png)

Select `MariaDB Enterprise Kubernetes Operator`, click on install, and you will be able to create a `Subscription` object via the UI.

Once deployed, the operator comes with example resources that can be deployed from the console directly. For instance, to create a `MariaDB`:

![](../../.gitbook/assets/openshift-console-form.png)

As you can see in the previous screenshot, the form view that the OpenShift console offers is limited, we recommend using the YAML view:

![](../../.gitbook/assets/openshift-console-yaml.png)

{% include "https://app.gitbook.com/s/SsmexDFPv2xG2OTyO5yV/~/reusable/pNHZQXPP5OEz2TgvhFva/" %}

{% @marketo/form formId="4316" %}
