# Configure OpenID Connect Identity Provider

Title: Configure OpenID Connect Identity Provider Created by Egor Ustinov, last modified by Tauseef Khan on Oct 13, 2025

### Accessing the Identity Provider Page

{% stepper %}
{% step %}
### Navigate to Settings

* Navigate to the **Settings** page.
{% endstep %}

{% step %}
### Open Identity Provider

* Click the **Identity Provider** section.
{% endstep %}
{% endstepper %}

## OpenID Connect (OIDC)

Enterprise Manager can be integrated with a number of identity providers using OpenID Connect (OIDC). This allows centralizing user authentication and identity management.

### Resetting the OIDC configuration

{% stepper %}
{% step %}
### Click Reset Configuration

* Click the **Reset Configuration** button.
{% endstep %}

{% step %}
### Confirm Reset

* Click the **Reset** button in the confirmation modal that appears.

This will delete the existing **OIDC** settings and restore the form to its default values.
{% endstep %}
{% endstepper %}

## Defining user permissions from the Identity Provider

Enterprise Manager expects that the login JWT tokens generated by the identity provider will contain a field named `account` and that it will contain the Enterprise Manager role of the user. The way in which this is defined depends on the identity provider.

Here is an example JWT payload that contains the `account` field which defines that the user has the `admin` role:

```json
{
  "account": "admin",
  "aud": "admin",
  "exp": 1760133641,
  "iat": 1760104841,
  "iss": "maxscale",
  "jti": "0780a545-bb7a-404d-a384-64d04557801d",
  "sub": "admin"
}
```

### Attachments

* [Settings - Identity Provider - OIDC.png](broken-reference) (image/png)
* [Settings - Identity Provider.png](broken-reference) (image/png)
* [Reset configuration.png](broken-reference) (image/png)
* [Confirm.png](broken-reference) (image/png)
* [Settings reset successfully.png](broken-reference) (image/png)

Document generated by Confluence on Oct 13, 2025 16:28

http://www.atlassian.com/
