general-resources/about/readme/contributing-documentation.md, before:

---
description: Instructions on how to contribute to MariaDB documentation
---

# Contributing Documentation

The documentation for MariaDB products is

* written in standard American English,
* using Markdown format,
* stored in Git.

While the documentation is mainly maintained by the documentation team at MariaDB plc, **we are happy to get contributions**. Being stored in Git, it allows anyone to contribute to the documentation. You need [a GitHub account](https://github.com/), [a basic knowledge of Markdown](https://www.writethedocs.org/guide/writing/markdown/), and some expertise in what you’re writing about. You also have to agree to our [contributor agreement](../../community/community/legal-documents/mca.md).

Contributing is as simple as this:

* Access [this repository](https://github.com/mariadb-corporation/mariadb-docs), log in with your GitHub account.
* Find the page in the documentation that you want to edit, correct, or amend.
* Make a pull request, edit, and submit.

The MariaDB documentation team will review your edits, smooth out any rough edges (language and style), and incorporate your contribution into the documentation. Don’t be afraid to submit imperfect contributions, as long as they’re factually correct.

Before you start making larger contributions, make yourself familiar with [the basics of technical writing](https://developers.google.com/style/highlights) (a 1-minute read). This is about using proper tone and content, language and grammar, as well as formatting, punctuation, and organization.

The source format of pages is Markdown. How to format text is [on this GitBook page](https://gitbook.com/docs/creating-content/formatting/markdown). A Markdown cheat sheet with a 10-minute tutorial and a Markdown "playground" [can be found here](https://commonmark.org/help/).

Read our [style guide](documentation-style-guide.md), too. (It's short!)

Also see the [About Links](about-links.md) page. It has useful information for when you are adding links to other pages.

{% @marketo/form formId="4316" %}

Commit message:

GITBOOK-153: Explain where the Edit on GitHub button is.

general-resources/about/readme/contributing-documentation.md, after:

---
description: Instructions on how to contribute to MariaDB documentation
---

# Contributing Documentation

The documentation for MariaDB products is

* written in standard American English,
* using Markdown format,
* stored in Git.

While the documentation is mainly maintained by the documentation team at MariaDB plc, **we are happy to get contributions**. Being stored in Git, it allows anyone to contribute to the documentation. You need [a GitHub account](https://github.com/), [a basic knowledge of Markdown](https://www.writethedocs.org/guide/writing/markdown/), and some expertise in what you’re writing about. You also have to agree to our [contributor agreement](../../community/community/legal-documents/mca.md).

Contributing is as simple as this:

* Access [this repository](https://github.com/mariadb-corporation/mariadb-docs), log in with your GitHub account.
* Find the page in the documentation that you want to edit, correct, or amend.
* Make a pull request, edit, and submit.

The MariaDB documentation team will review your edits, smooth out any rough edges (language and style), and incorporate your contribution into the documentation. Don’t be afraid to submit imperfect contributions, as long as they’re factually correct.

Once you're set up to start editing, you can also use the `Edit on GitHub` button to open the page you're looking it in GitHub, as shown in the following screenshot. The button can be accessed from the `Ask` menu near the top of each page.

<div align="left"><figure><img src="../../.gitbook/assets/image (6).png" alt="" width="275"><figcaption></figcaption></figure></div>

Before you start making larger contributions, make yourself familiar with [the basics of technical writing](https://developers.google.com/style/highlights) (a 1-minute read). This is about using proper tone and content, language and grammar, as well as formatting, punctuation, and organization.

The source format of pages is Markdown. How to format text is [on this GitBook page](https://gitbook.com/docs/creating-content/formatting/markdown). A Markdown cheat sheet with a 10-minute tutorial and a Markdown "playground" [can be found here](https://commonmark.org/help/).

Read our [style guide](documentation-style-guide.md), too. (It's short!)

Also see the [About Links](about-links.md) page. It has useful information for when you are adding links to other pages.

{% @marketo/form formId="4316" %}
